# v0.3.16

:::info

This contains detailed release notes. Read the highlights in this [blog post](https://datahub.com/blog/datahub-cloud-v0-3-16/).

:::

#### Release Availability Date

TBD

#### Recommended Versions

- **CLI/SDK**: TBD
- **Remote Executor**: TBD
- **On-Prem Versions**:
  - **Helm**: TBD
  - **API Gateway**: TBD
  - **Actions**: TBD

## Release Changelog

### v0.3.16-acryl

New Features:

<!-- John -->

- **Ask DataHub (Public Beta)** - Ask DataHub chat assistant is now in Public Beta! Available in DataHub, Slack, & Microsoft Teams. This means it's available for all customers to use. If you do NOT want Ask DataHub enabled for your instance, please reach out to your DataHub customer representative. Learn more about Ask DataHub [here](https://docs.datahub.com/docs/features/feature-guides/ask-datahub). 

- **Context Documents (Public Beta)** - Context Documents are now available in Public Beta! Create documents on DataHub - Runbooks, FAQs, Business Definitions, Decision Logs - that can be used to help Ask DataHub (and humans) answer a broader set of questions. Link documents to related data assets & docs, and safely publish documents when you're ready for Ask DataHub and the rest of your team to see them.  

- **Editing Tools in Ask DataHub & MCP Server**: Ask DataHub & DataHub MCP Server now include tool enabling you make changes to your data assets. Easily update descriptions, add + remove tags, terms, domains, structured properties, and owners using natural language. 

- **AI Features: Support for Gemini on GCP** - For customers hosted on Google Cloud Platform, DataHub AI features including Ask DataHub are now available for use through Gemini. Reach out to your DataHub Customer Representative to enable. 

- **Ask DataHub for Ingestion:** Streamline your ingestion setup and troubleshooting with AI-powered assistance. Get step-by-step configuration guidance, instant error interpretation, performance tuning recommendations, and advanced configuration help—all through conversational chat embedded directly in the ingestion UI.
- **Ingestion Configuration Redesign:** Refreshed UI/UX for a more intuitive ingestion setup experience.

- Observe Python SDK: Introducing complete support for managing all native assertion types, this includes column value, smart sql, and schema assertions.
- On-demand assertions with parameters: Use template parameters within SQL statements of assertions, and trigger them on-demand with dynamic parameters subsituted in at runtime!

<!-- Adrian -->

- Freshness Assertion Tuning: You can now adjust your smart freshness assertions; labelling historical anomalies, adding exclusion windows, and tuning sensitivity to improve future freshness anomaly detection
- Observe Query Attribution: Query tags have been added to warehouse queries issued by Observe, to aid in cost attribution. Snowflake [query tags](https://select.dev/posts/snowflake-query-tags) and BigQuery [job labels](https://docs.cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/adding-labels#job-label) are used for those respective platforms, and standard SQL comments are used for RedShift and Databricks.
- Observe Data Consistency: Additional validation and checks added for Assertion and Monitor entities

Fixes:

- Snowflake - introduces support for private key auth
- Data health dashboard link sharing on the 'By Assertion' tab was broken. This is now patched.
- Slack alerts for legacy assertion failures now correctly route to the assertion.
- In some instances with corrupted legacy assertions, other non-corrupted assertions stopped showing on dataset pages due to failures of an MCP Upgrade Step. This is now resolved.
- Fix view authorization issue with home page domains module where module would fail to load if a user couldn't view one of the domains
- Fixes an error page that can occasionally happen after clicking the executor name in your ingestion list that takes you to the list of executors
- Fixed some assertions not showing up in the dataset quality tab
- Externally reported assertion run events were not triggering notifications. This is now fixed.
- Pagination of inactive metadata-tests is fixed, ensuring processing of all metadata tests in batch mode.

## Known Issues

- TODO
