# v0.3.10
---

Release Availability Date
---
4-April-2025

Recommended CLI/SDK
---
1.0.0.2

Helm Chart
---
1.5.20

## Known Issues

- API Tracing: Some aspects (i.e. `siblings`) which can be generated by system hooks are reported as a trace error if the system aspect and ingestion are creating conflicting aspects.

## Release Changelog
---

### v0.3.10.2

- Bug Fixes
  - [Forms] Fixes a bug introduced in `v0.3.10.1` where you would be removed from the forms experience when applying filters or making certain changes in the bulk by question form view.
  - [Manage Ingestion] Fixes a bug from `v0.3.10.1` where you may not be able to properly switch pages in the manage ingestion experience.

### v0.3.10.1

- All changes in https://github.com/datahub-project/datahub/releases/tag/v1.0.0

- Known Bugs
  - [Forms] There is a bug in the bulk by question Forms experience where if you apply filters, change the search query, change page, or change page size the modal to fill the form out closes. This is fixed in `v0.3.10.2` which is a recommended version over this version.
  - [Manage Ingestion] Styling changes affected the ability to switch between pages for certain users depending on their ingestion data. This could result in not being able to properly change pages in the ingestion page.

- Breaking Changes

- Bug Fixes
  - [Schema Tab] Render rich text in the V1 experience where you can click on links instead of having to click "View more"
  - [Subscriptions] Fix edge case where we were not showing display names for users or groups properly in subscription summaries
  - [Nav Bar] Fix the styling of the logo in the new nav bar header experience in Safari
  - [Group Membership] Harden the UI to prevent errors when showing group memberships on a user profile page
  - [Structured Properties] Allow users to search for Glossary Nodes when applying asset values to structured properties
  - [Lineage] Hide a few unwanted and unneeded filters in the lineage list view from the UI
  - [Lineage] Remove restriction on per-hop node limit, causing some results to be hidden.
  - [Lineage] Fix an issue where indirect upstream lineage was incomplete for certain entity types like Charts. Both Impact Analysis & Lineage Graph. This was also causing Upstream Health sidebar section to underreport upstream assets with health problems. 
  - [Queries Tab] Change the page size
  - [Search Filters] Adding support for a "Has Siblings" filter (disabled by default, available by request). 

- Product

  - **Navigation**: Our new simplified nav bar is now switched on by default in the V2 UI
  - **Custom Asset Actions**: Links create via the Documentation tab can now be elevated to display in page headers and search results. We've also added an `upsertLink` GraphQL endpoint for easier programmatic management of links.
  - **Proposals**: Entity profile pages now display the new proposal types: Ownership, Domains, and Structured Properties.
  - **Proposals**: Our redesigned proposals experience (Proposals 2.0) is now in beta (enabled by request)! Try out the improved interface for viewing proposals you can approve/decline as well as those that you've created.
  - **Proposal Notifications**: You can now configure to be notified when you are assigned to review a proposal, or a proposal you raised is approved or denied from **Settings** > **My Notifications**.
  - **Observe**: Introducing on-demand smart assertions in beta (enabled by request)! You can now create freshness, volume, and field metric anomaly detection checks via the UI for any table that's supported by Observe.
  - **Observe**: Smart assertion tuning - Improve your anomaly monitors by adjusting training data lookback window, tightening or loosening the sensitivity, and adding data-point exclusion windows.
  - **Observe**: Incidents V2 - Incidents have received a significant uplift! With capabilities to set assignees, severity, stage, and impacted assets. Also: search, group & filter incidents on the incidents tab. 
  - **Remote Executor**: Introduces a new **Executors** tab in the **Manage Data Sources** page for improved management and observability of Remote Executor Pools
  - **Remote Executors**: Create and provision new Executor Pools directly from the UI and optionally set them as default for future Ingestion Source configurations. Easily view the set of deployed executors, their status, configured Ingestion Sources, and current running tasks.
  - **Compliance Forms**: Support deep linking to a specific Compliance Form completion experience inside the Compliance Center.
  - **Search**: Support searching for Deprecated assets via a new Deprecated filter. Also, show deprecation in Lineage sidebar as an upstream health warning. 
  
- Platform
  - **OpenAPI**: API Tracing improvements (Experimental)
  - **GraphQL**: Sorting added to `scrollAcrossEntities`
  - **Performance**: Improved access policy performance when using nested domains and containers
  - **OpenAPI**: Operation endpoints created to fetch raw ES documents and view kafka lag on MCP and MCL topics
  - **OpenAPI**: Additional validation for URNs and entity/aspect names when using async endpoints
  - **OpenAPI**: Fixed timeseries aspect ingestion bug #12912
  - **Restore Indices Job**: Support added for read-only replicas

- Ingestion 
  - **MLflow**: Support dataset ↔ run lineage with customizable platform mapping for datasets.
  - **OpenAPI**: Ingestion can use OpenAPI instead of Rest.li, set environment variable `DATAHUB_REST_SINK_DEFAULT_ENDPOINT=OPENAPI`
  - **API Tracing**: Ingestion can trace each async write by tracking the write to primary and search storage, set environment variable `DATAHUB_REST_TRACE_MODE=ENABLED`

### v0.3.10

- Regression in the Slack app was discovered after release. Do not use this release, instead go straight to v0.3.10.1.
