# v0.2.12
---

Release Availability Date
---
13-Oct-2023

Recommended CLI/SDK
---
- `v0.11.0.4` with release notes at https://github.com/acryldata/datahub/releases/tag/v0.11.0.4
- [breaking] Removed support for SQLAlchemy 1.3.x. Only SQLAlchemy 1.4.x is supported now.
- [breaking] Removed `urn:li:corpuser:datahub` owner for the `Measure`, `Dimension` and `Temporal` tags emitted by Looker and LookML source connectors.
- [breaking] The Airflow plugin no longer supports Airflow 2.0.x or Python 3.7.
- [breaking] Introduced the Airflow plugin v2. If you're using Airflow 2.3+, the v2 plugin will be enabled by default, and so you'll need to switch your requirements to include `pip install 'acryl-datahub-airflow-plugin[plugin-v2]'`. To continue using the v1 plugin, set the `DATAHUB_AIRFLOW_PLUGIN_USE_V1_PLUGIN` environment variable to `true`.
- [breaking] The Unity Catalog ingestion source has a new option `include_metastore`, which will cause all urns to be changed when disabled.
This is currently enabled by default to preserve compatibility, but will be disabled by default and then removed in the future.
If stateful ingestion is enabled, simply setting `include_metastore: false` will perform all required cleanup.
Otherwise, we recommend soft deleting all databricks data via the DataHub CLI:
`datahub delete --platform databricks --soft` and then reingesting with `include_metastore: false`.


If you are using an older CLI/SDK version then please upgrade it. This applies for all CLI/SDK usages, if you are using it through your terminal, github actions, airflow, in python SDK somewhere, Java SKD etc. This is a strong recommendation to upgrade as we keep on pushing fixes in the CLI and it helps us support you better.


## Release Changelog
---
- Since `v0.2.11` these changes from OSS DataHub https://github.com/datahub-project/datahub/compare/75252a3d9f6a576904be5a0790d644b9ae2df6ac...10a190470e8c932b6d34cba49de7dbcba687a088 have been pulled in.

## Some notable features in this SaaS release
- Nested Domains available in this release
