# v0.3.4
---

Release Availability Date
---
29-Jul-2024

Recommended CLI/SDK
---
- `v0.13.3.4` with release notes at https://github.com/acryldata/datahub/releases/tag/v0.13.3.4

If you are using an older CLI/SDK version, then please upgrade it. This applies for all CLI/SDK usages, if you are using it through your terminal, GitHub Actions, Airflow, in Python SDK somewhere, Java SDK, etc. This is a strong recommendation to upgrade, as we keep on pushing fixes in the CLI, and it helps us support you better.

## Release Changelog
---

- Product changes
    - [notifications] You are now able to send test notifications to Slack user or group from settings.
    - [cross-instance share] Share failures should now correctly display handle URLs.
    - [siblings] Fixed siblings split feature when used for autocomplete; DataHub now disallows creation of assertions on merged sibling page; Fixed a bug in editing an assertion on a merged lineage node.
    - [lineage - v2] Minor fixes to lineage counts and column-level-lineage resolution by respecting soft deleted assets in the lineage graph.


- Ingestion changes
    - Added support for SQL parsing in Looker source to more correctly represent column-level-lineage. Please report any edge cases issues to the Acryl team as we will be closely monitoring this integration.
    - Added cli version in system metadata at the aspect level for tracking purposes.
    - Added async REST sink capabilities in CLI.
    - Added documentation on how to cleanup obsolete airflow pipelines and tasks from Datahub
    - Soft deleted entities using the airflow plugin should now come back once they re-appear.
    - Added 2 new connectors: Grafana & Azure Blob Storage (ABS)
    - Glue to s3 lineage should now be generated automatically in the glue source.
    - Added a snowflake queries source which does lineage, usage, queries, and operations all in one go.
    - Added dataset profiling to PowerBI.
    - Added a file source integration (S3 / Local Files), this is to add files as datasets. Not to be confused with the metadata file source that loads MCPs into DataHub.
 
- Platform changes
    - Added initial support for custom MCP mutator hooks.

- Since `v0.3.3`, these changes from OSS DataHub have been pulled in: [OSS DataHub Changes](https://github.com/datahub-project/datahub/compare/92e9a5823bc14e81f0f21c55a68c493c3bbe87b9...8d874ad1e4bef9d7afbe20fb3cb457566a15c61c).
