# v0.3.12

## Release Availability Date

18-Jun-2025

## Recommended CLI/SDK

1.1.0.2

## Recommended Remote Executor

v0.3.12-acryl (recommended) / v0.3.11.1-acryl (minimum)

## Known Issues

- Remote executor versions older than `v0.3.11.1-acryl` will not work with this release. If you're on an older version, please reach out to your DataHub representative - there may be some workarounds.
- There are two issues with the remote executor that the DataHub team is triaging: (1) for system ingestion sources, sometimes they do not get executed as expected if their schedule is repeatedly changed and (2) in rare cases, the remote executor may stop responding to new requests. In both cases, restarting the remote executor resolves the issue.
- The "remote automations" feature does not yet work. Automations must run with the default "DataHub embedded" executor. Note that remote automations is a specific capability of the remote executor; remote ingestion and observability are not affected.
- **Databricks Metadata Sync Automation**: 1) Does not yet support syncing AI-Generated Column descriptions from DataHub to Databricks. 2) When column tags are applied _first_ in Databricks, they cannot yet be edited from DataHub. This will be addressed in an upcoming release.
- The new ingestion page redesign has a known edge case where if you have multiple sources running at the same time and you switch back and forth between the Sources tab and the Run History tab, it's possible that data appears to be cleared. In order to fix this, refresh your browser to see everything is back to normal.
- The "Ingested Assets" section of the ingestion run history modal sometimes presents incorrect counts and misformats entity type names. This issue impacts v0.3.12 as well.

## Release Changelog

---

### v0.3.12

This release includes all changes up to and including DataHub Core v1.1.0.

- Breaking Changes

- Product

  - **AI-Generated Documentaton** is now in Public Beta. Turn it on by going to **Settings > AI** and enabling **Documentation AI**.
  - **DataHub Slack Assistant** is now in Private Beta. Reach out to your DataHub representative to get access.
  - **Data Health Dashboard V2** is here, featuring enhanced filtering capabilities for an improved user experience.
  - **Smart Assertion Anomaly Feedback**: You can now mark passing assertion runs as anomalous, to remove them from future training data for Smart Assertions. You can also mark failing assertions as NOT anomalies, to include the data point in the training data for Freshness, Volume, and Column assertions.
  - **Data Source Management**: This release introduces a brand new ingestion management experience! View the status of your ingestion sources with a cleaner, more refined design. We're also introducing a new **Run History** tab to view all of your ingestion runs in chronological order with the capability to filter for your desired source(s). Additionally, we are now displaying users who initiated ingestion source runs whether the action was taken through the UI or CLI. Finally, we now enable you to set up permissions to allow specific users to view only the ingestion sources they should see, including fine-grained permissions for view, edit, delete, and execute.
  - **Compliance Forms Notifications**: Notifications for compliance form assignees are officially here! Configure which forms you want users to be notified for in the form builder. Once the form is published, or once new users are assigned to the form, assignees responsible for filling out the form will receive email and/or Slack notifications if they are configured.
  - **Disable Metadata Tests**: We now provide you the ability to enable or disable metadata tests directly within the UI.
  - **Databricks Metadata Sync Automation**: Sync tags & descriptions from DataHub back to Databricks. When combined with tag & description in ingestion, this enables full bi-directional synchronization between DataHub and Databricks.
  - **Data Pipeline Lineage** Data Pipelines can now be visualized, along with their child tasks' lineage, on the new Lineage tab accessible on the data pipeline entity page.
  - **Lineage Explorer Redesign** The Lineage Explorer (visualization) has been reskinned! Set environment variable `LINEAGE_GRAPH_V3` to enable.

- Ingestion

  - The **Python SDK V2** is ready for use. This includes easy mechanisms for creating and updating dataset, dashboards, charts, etc, for searching DataHub, and adding and traversing lineage.
  - You can now ingest **AWS LakeFormation Tags** within the **AWS Glue** connector.

- Platform

  - Policy Engine Privilege Constraints
  - Audit Events - EventBridge Support
  - #13545: Lineage Query Performance Improvement
  - Support Inactive Metadata Tests
    - Metadata tests disabled by default on new instances
  - Privilege checks for Ingestion Sources
  - #13726: Configuration of search query limits and defaults
  - #13667: Kafka Major Version Update to Confluent `7.9.1`
  - #13628: Added trace id & timestamps to API responses

- Bug Fixes

  - #13775: Ownership Types fallback to "type" when "typeUrn" missing
  - #13729: Fix executor coordinator config caching bug
  - #13628: Fix API tracing on no-ops
  - #13618: Fix generic patch attribution with mixed attribution
  - Remote Executor - Backwards compatibility fix
  - Improve consistency of raising, approving, or rejecting proposals updating in real time
  - Fix filter for finding assets to report compliance forms analytics on
  - Allow updating names of groups coming from external sources like a SCIM integration
  - Prevent search indexing going out of bounds by sending users to page one on page size change
  - Fix cursor jumping to end of text in search bar when editing a query
  - Retain search filters when changing your search query on the search results page
  - Depreciation status on charts is now shown on the lineage explorer visualization
