# v0.3.5
---

Release Availability Date
---
02-Sep-2024

Recommended CLI/SDK
---
- `v0.14.0.2` with release notes at https://github.com/acryldata/datahub/releases/tag/v0.14.0.2

If you are using an older CLI/SDK version, then please upgrade it. This applies for all CLI/SDK usages, if you are using it through your terminal, GitHub Actions, Airflow, in Python SDK somewhere, Java SDK, etc. This is a strong recommendation to upgrade, as we keep on pushing fixes in the CLI, and it helps us support you better.

## Release Changelog
---

- All changes in https://github.com/datahub-project/datahub/releases/tag/v0.14.0.2
    - Note Breaking Changes: https://datahubproject.io/docs/how/updating-datahub/#0140

- Product changes
    - Misc fixes and improvements for the Snowflake Tag Propagation Automation (Beta)
    - Misc fixes and improvements for the Glossary Term Tag Propagation Automation (Beta)
    - Misc fixes and improvements for the Column Docs Propagation Automation (Beta)
    - Minor UX improvements on the groups profile page
    - Add 'Explore All' button to search dropdown permanently
    - Add toggle to filter out transformations in lineage viz
    - Misc fixes and minor improvements around the subscriptions and slack integrations experience
    - The new slack ingestion source enables one-click subscriptions for your users by automatically hydrating users' memberID. New users who sign up will also automatically have their memberIDs hydrated.
        - Please reach out to the Acryl team to get assistance in setting this up.
    - Installing or Re-installing the slackbot will now enable the `/datahub` command and ensure your `botToken` is compatible with the new slack ingestion source. You can reach out to the Acryl team for assistance with re-installation.

- Ingestion changes
    - New configuration for dbt lineage, "merges" sources with their sibling in viz: set `prefer_sql_parser_lineage` and `skip_sources_in_lineage` in ingestion; set flag `HIDE_DBT_SOURCE_IN_LINEAGE=true` in gms
