# v0.3.14

:::info

This contains detailed release notes, but there's also an [announcement blog post](https://datahub.com/blog/datahub-cloud-v0-3-14/) that covers the highlights.

:::

#### Release Availability Date

15-Sept-2025

#### Recommended Versions

- **CLI/SDK**: 1.2.0.8
- **Remote Executor**: v0.3.14-acryl (recommended), v0.3.13.2-acryl, v0.3.13.1-acryl, v0.3.13-acryl, v0.3.12.4-acryl
- **On-Prem Versions**:
  - **Helm**: 1.5.90
  - **API Gateway**: 0.5.3
  - **Actions**: 1.2.0.8

## Release Changelog

### v0.3.14-acryl

New Features:

- **Power User Recommendations**: Enable admins to quickly identify power users of data platforms and drive adoption by targeting colleagues who are most likely to benefit from DataHub's capabilities. Currently behind a feature flag.
- **Support Widget**: DataHub Cloud's users with `Admin` role will see a `Get Support` option in Navbar. That can be used to raise support tickets to our team. This is currently meant only for Admin users and over time we may enable this for more users.
- **Sample Tab for Ingestion**: For users using the recommended CLI, in most cases will see a Sample Tab on Ingestion Run status Modal. That will share examples of assets that have lineage, usage or profiling available. This can help users validate that important details are being ingested by ingestion connectors.
- **New Advanced search queries**: In our [search doc](../../how/search.md) 2 additional advanced search queries will be available. These are marked as available in `0.3.14.x` release of DataHub Cloud.
- **Sending full logs from remote executor (Optional)**: We now have an option of DataHub Cloud customers running [remote executor](../remote-executor/about.md) to allow shipping full logs to DataHub. These logs (in this release) will only be accessible to our team to help debug the ingestion issues faster. This is an optional feature that you can give your approval to our team so they can enable it from our side. This requires upgrading DataHub Cloud server on DataHub side and customers upgrading remote executor on their end. This new feature allows remote executor to upload logs directly to S3 buckets. In future releases we may plan to use existing communication channels to upload logs to DataHub side instead of direct S3 uploads.
- **More analytics events** - More analytics events are now being sent for the ingestion page. These can be accessed through our API.
- **Custom Home Page** - Starting this release, the new customizable home page will now be enabled for all by default! This new home page allows users with permission to create or edit modules for a custom default experience for all users in your organization. Alternatively, users can individually update their own personal home page to suit their needs. Configure custom asset collections, hierarchy views, documentation, pinned links and more! In this release we've also added a few additional improvements to our previous release including dynamic filters for the Collections module, a popup letting users know when they've forked to their own home page, and auto-expanding Hierarchy modules with one root node.
- **Custom Summary Tabs** - Introducing a new summary tab experience for Domains, Data Products, Glossary Terms, and Glossary Term Groups! Currently in private beta behind a feature flag, this new tab experience allows users to choose which metadata to highlight and customize helpful modules for their logical assets! In addition, the new summary tab improves upon the existing documentation and links experience with a cleaner look and feel.
- **Tune Smart Assertions**: A simple UI to see all the metrics Volume and Column Metric Smart Assertions are looking at, and quickly exclude data to update future predictions in real-time.
- **Bulk-Create Assertions and Subscriptions**: On the Data Health page you can now quickly set up subscriptions and assertions. Note, free slack workspaces may ban your entire workspace for producing too much notification noise.
- **'By Incidents' view on health dashboard**: The data health dashboard now has a 'by incidents' tab!
- **Kafka Topic setup**: The `datahub-system-update` container now manages Kafka Topics setup with enhanced configuration flexibility and replaces the `kafka-setup` container.
- **Logical Models**: Logical Models are now available in a private beta. See [the docs](../../features/feature-guides/logical-models/overview.md) for more details. There is currently a bug, where propagation status is not properly shown on propagated groups in the UI, during ownership propagation.

Fixes

- **Improved UX in Ingestion runs** - The `View All` button of ingestion runs never had the full outcomes of the runs. This was more so in the case of older ingestion runs. This is being made clear in UI now through a warning message.
- **Various UX fixes in ingestion listing page** - We have done various fixes to improve navigation in the ingestion list page.
- **Compliance Forms** - We've taken some time to improve the experience around updating metadata in compliance forms where ownership prompts will now fully replace the state of owners of the submitted type. So existing owners of a given type will be removed if they are not in the submitted response.
- **Governance Tab** - Hide system generated metadata tests for compliance forms from the Governance tab as they were just muddying up the experience for our users.
- **Schema Table** - Fixes an odd visual bug where "show more" was displayed at varying widths in the description column of a schema table, causing visual noise and clutter.
- Fixes for implicit OIDC flows to include user names and group provisioning.
- Impact lineage query no longer returns successful without traversing the graph. It will throw an exception if it exceeds the traversal limit (40k) instead of slient failure.
- SCIM Integration: Patch operation handling for SCIM endpoints

## Known Issues

- **Bulk-Create Assertions disclaimer:** Creating over 1,000 assertions will require vertically scaling datahub pods. Particularly, the executor-coordinator and integrations service will need to be scalled vertically. Closely monitor utilization and scale accordingly.
- **Bulk-Create Subscriptions disclaimer:** Be careful of subscribing to assertion passes, as this may create too much noise and result in dropped messages for Teams and Slack.
