# v0.3.17

:::info

This contains detailed release notes. Read the highlights in this [blog post](https://datahub.com/blog/datahub-cloud-v0-3-17/).

:::

#### Release Availability Date

23-Mar-2026

#### Recommended Versions

- **CLI/SDK**: TBD
- **Remote Executor**: v0.3.17-acryl <!-- NOTE: This need to be the latest version for assertion backfill to work -->
- **On-Prem Versions**:
  - **Helm**: TBD
  - **API Gateway**: TBD
  - **Actions**: TBD

## Release Changelog

### v0.3.17-acryl

Breaking Changes:

- **Deprecation** We're sunsetting 'Bulk Create' on the data health dashboard, in favor of the new 'Monitoring rules' automation. This can be toggled on via `observability.assertion_monitoring_rules` helm flag. This requires `online_smart_assertions` to be enabled, and the user to have the `MANAGE_TESTS` privilege.
- **Security Fix** The default signing key and salt values present in application.yaml used in [Metadata Service Authentication](https://docs.datahub.com/docs/authentication/introducing-metadata-service-authentication#configuring-metadata-service-authentication) have been removed. The application now requires these values to be provided via env variables DATAHUB_TOKEN_SERVICE_SIGNING_KEY and DATAHUB_TOKEN_SERVICE_SALT to the GMS deployment, consumers and other related services and jobs.
  IMPACT:

  - Existing browser sessions from before the upgrade, maybe invalidated and a relogin is needed.
  - PAT (Personal Access Token) Changes:
    - If you’re using default token signing key and salt (not overridden): Existing PATs will stop working after upgrade due to updated signing keys. You’ll need to regenerate them. See backward compatibility notes for details.
    - No impact if: You’ve already overridden the default token signing key and salt with custom values or using DataHub Cloud

  ACTION:

  - Please update your DataHub helm charts to the recommended version or above before deploying the new release.
  - If you are not using the DataHub helm charts to deploy, then ensure that the above variables are set in your GMS deployment and related jobs.

  If the values are not set correctly you may see an error like below in your service logs.

```
authentication.tokenService.signingKey must be set and not be empty
```

or

```
authentication.tokenService.salt must be set and not be empty
```

:::note
For backward compatibility you can set the value of these variables to the previous default values defined [here](https://github.com/datahub-project/datahub/blob/4efc55ccb469c5480c5bb45c17b933c590f18788/metadata-service/configuration/src/main/resources/application.yaml#L26). This is not recommended though, and it is advised to regenerate new tokens with updated keys as soon as possible.
:::

Deprecations & Sunsets

The V1 UI theme is now officially sunset. All new features and patches going forward will be on the V2 UI (`THEME_V2_ENABLED=true`). If you are a customer of DataHub Cloud, or started using DataHub after February 2025 (or kept your clone/fork's environment variables in-sync with upstream since then), then this is already your default experience and you do not need to change anything. To ensure you are experiencing the latest features of DataHub, please ensure the following GMS environment variables are set

```
THEME_V2_ENABLED=true
THEME_V2_DEFAULT=true
THEME_V2_TOGGLEABLE=false
```

or via helm chart in your `values.yaml`

```yaml
datahub-gms:
  theme_v2:
    enabled: true
    default: true
```

Going forward, the V1 theme and associated code will be actively removed. This will help improve UI performance and simplify the codebase for contributors.

New Features:

<!-- Observe -->

- **Monitoring Rules** - Setup freshness, volume, and schema anomaly monitoring rules across datasets in a few clicks. When new datasets appear in the predicate, they will automatically be monitored too.
- **Assertion Time Series Bucketing** - Group your data into a time series to perform data quality checks at a day or week granularity.
- **Backfill Assertion History** - Backfill historical data into your smart assertions, to generate accurate predictions faster, and understand daily, weekly, or monthly seasonality.

Improvements & Fixes:

<!-- Observe -->

- We are temporarily removing support for creating new smart assertions for field metrics that are not measuring row counts. The supported metrics for smart assertions are now: null_count, unique_count, empty_count, zero_count, negative_count. Any existing smart assertions running against other metrics will remain operational. If you are currently using a percentage-based metric, we recommend switching to its count-based equivalent:
  - `null_percentage` → `null_count`
  - `unique_percentage` → `unique_count`
  - `empty_percentage` → `empty_count`
  - `zero_percentage` → `zero_count`
  - `negative_percentage` → `negative_count`
- **Assertion Health Reporting** - Assertions now better communicate errors they run into during their operations, and recommend actions you must take to repair them.
