# v0.2.10
---

Release Availability Date
---
09-Aug-2023

Recommended CLI/SDK
---
- `v0.10.5.5` with release notes at https://github.com/acryldata/datahub/releases/tag/v0.10.5.5

If you are using an older CLI/SDK version then please upgrade it. This applies for all CLI/SDK usages, if you are using it through your terminal, github actions, airflow, in python SDK somewhere, Java SKD etc. This is a strong recommendation to upgrade as we keep on pushing fixes in the CLI and it helps us support you better.

Special Notes
- We have a new search and browse experience. We cannot enable it unless all of your CLI/SDK usages are upgraded. If you are using a custom source then you need to upgrade your source to produce `browsePathv2` aspects. Details are in [this doc](../../browseV2/browse-paths-v2.md).
- [Breaking change] For all sql-based sources that support profiling, you can no longer specify `profile_table_level_only` together with `include_field_xyz` config options to ingest certain column-level metrics. Instead, set `profile_table_level_only` to false and individually enable / disable desired field metrics.
- [Breaking change] The `bigquery-beta` and `snowflake-beta` source aliases have been dropped. Use `bigquery` and `snowflake` as the source type instead.
- [Behaviour change] Ingestion runs created with Pipeline.create will show up in the DataHub ingestion tab as CLI-based runs. To revert to the previous behavior of not showing these runs in DataHub, pass `no_default_report=True`.
- [Behaviour change] snowflake connector will use user's email attribute as is, as the urn. To revert to previous behavior disable `email_as_user_identifier` in recipe.



## Release Changelog
---
- Since `v0.2.9` these changes from OSS DataHub https://github.com/datahub-project/datahub/compare/1f0723fad109658a69bb1d4279100de8514f35d7...2b0952195b7895df0a2bf92b28e71aac18217781 have been pulled in.

## Some notable features in this SaaS release
- New search and Browse v2 experience. This can only be enabled if you upgrade all your CLI/SDK usage as per our recommendation provided above.
- We will be enabling these features selectively. If you are interested in trying it and providing feedback, please reach out to your Acryl Customer Success representative.
    - Acryl Observe Freshness Assertions available in private beta as shared [here](../observe/freshness-assertions.md). 
    - New notifications and Subscriptions feature available.