# v0.2.11
---

Release Availability Date
---
14-Sep-2023

Recommended CLI/SDK
---
- `v0.11.0` with release notes at https://github.com/acryldata/datahub/releases/tag/v0.11.0
- [Deprecation] In LDAP ingestor, the manager_pagination_enabled changed to general pagination_enabled

If you are using an older CLI/SDK version then please upgrade it. This applies for all CLI/SDK usages, if you are using it through your terminal, github actions, airflow, in python SDK somewhere, Java SKD etc. This is a strong recommendation to upgrade as we keep on pushing fixes in the CLI and it helps us support you better.

Special Notes
---
- Deployment process for this release is going to have a downtime when systme will be in a read only mode. A rough estimate 1 hour for every 2.3 million entities (includes soft-deleted entities).


## Release Changelog
---
- Since `v0.2.10` these changes from OSS DataHub https://github.com/datahub-project/datahub/compare/2b0952195b7895df0a2bf92b28e71aac18217781...75252a3d9f6a576904be5a0790d644b9ae2df6ac have been pulled in.
- Misc fixes & features
    - Proposals
        - Group names shown correctly for proposal Inbox
    - Metadata tests
        - Deprecate/Un-deprecate actions available in Metadata tests
        - Last Observed (in underlying sql) available as a filter in metadata tests
        - [Breaking change] Renamed `__lastUpdated` -> `__created` as a filter  to correctly represent what it was. This was not surfaced in the UI. But if you were using it then this needs to be renamed. Acryl Customer Success team will keep an eye out to pro-actively find and bring this up if you are affected by this.
        - Robustness improvements to metadata test runs
        - Copy urn for metadata tests to allow for easier filtering for iteration over metadata test results via our APIs.
    - A lot more fixes to subscriptions, notifications and Observability (Beta).
    - Some performance improvements to lineage queries

## Some notable features in this SaaS release
- We now enable you to create and delete pinned announcements on your DataHub homepage! If you have the “Manage Home Page Posts” platform privilege you’ll see a new section in settings called “Home Page Posts” where you can create and delete text posts and link posts that your users see on the home page.
- Improvements to search experience
<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "56.25%", height: 0 }}>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/97abf74703d04457b96da3fed041089d"
    frameBorder={0}
    webkitallowfullscreen=""
    mozallowfullscreen=""
    allowFullScreen=""
    style={{
      position: "absolute",
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: "100%",
      height: "100%"
    }}
  />
</div>
- The CLI now supports recursive deletes
- New subscriptions feature will be widely rolled out this release
<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "56.25%", height: 0 }}>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/f02fe71e09494b5e82904c8a47f06ac1"
    frameBorder={0}
    webkitallowfullscreen=""
    mozallowfullscreen=""
    allowFullScreen=""
    style={{
      position: "absolute",
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: "100%",
      height: "100%"
    }}
  />
</div>
- We will be enabling these features selectively. If you are interested in trying it and providing feedback, please reach out to your Acryl Customer Success representative.
    - Acryl Observe Freshness Assertions available in private beta as shared [here](../observe/freshness-assertions.md). 
