# v0.1.34

## What's New

1.  **Redshift Lineage:** Out-of-the-box support for ingesting Dataset->Dataset lineage from Redshift system tables. Includes Tables, Views, and COPY from S3

    [Video Demo](https://youtu.be/3zX1Bf6qYaQ)
2. **Apache Nifi Connector** (Beta) : Integration with Apache Nifi to extract DataJobs and DataFlows! Read the source docs [here](https://datahubproject.io/docs/metadata-ingestion/source\_docs/nifi/). This source is currently incubating in beta.
3. **Mode Analytics Connector** (Beta): Integration with Mode Analytics to extract reports, charts, and more! Read the source docs [here](https://datahubproject.io/docs/metadata-ingestion/source\_docs/mode). This source is currently incubating in beta.
4. **Glossary Term Transformer:** Allows users to add tags or glossary terms to entities based on a regex match filter (Shoutout to Community Member [**ecooklin**](https://github.com/ecooklin)!)

## Fixes

1. Fix handling of **partitioned** & **snapshotted** tables for lineage usage, and basic table indexing.
2. Fix issue where recently viewed and most popular recommendations were not showing up when user urn contains special chars.
3. \[ui] Fix Groups page not showing asset ownership correctly
4. \[ui] Fix issue where markdown links were not clickable.
5. \[metadata service] Improve search & recommendations performance by \~50%, homepage load by \~50%.
6. \[cli] Fix deletes by search cannot accept auth token
7. \[policies] Fix no-op create tag privilege
8. Include admin user info in the UI&#x20;



## Compatibility

#### acryl-datahub (DataHub CLI)&#x20;

`0.8.18.*`, `0.8.19.*`&#x20;

## On the Horizon&#x20;

**Personal Access Tokens**

In a new 'Settings' tab you'll find the ability to generate "Personal Access Tokens". In the coming weeks, we will aim to roll UI-generated tokens as a replacement for the traditional API key authentication we've been using.&#x20;

To coordinate this effort, we'll be reaching out to teams individually, as it will be required that the API keys used for ingesting metadata will are replaced with the new tokens. Until further notice, please continue using your API keys.&#x20;
