### Prerequisites

This source needs to access system tables that require extra permissions.
To grant these permissions, please alter your datahub Redshift user the following way:
```sql
ALTER USER datahub_user WITH SYSLOG ACCESS UNRESTRICTED;
GRANT SELECT ON pg_catalog.svv_table_info to datahub_user;
GRANT SELECT ON pg_catalog.svl_user_info to datahub_user;
```

To ingest datashares lineage, ingestion user for both producer and consumer namespace would need alter/share
access to datashare. See [svv_datashares](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_SVV_DATASHARES.html)
docs for more information.
```sql
GRANT SHARE ON <share_name> to datahub_user
```

:::note

Giving a user unrestricted access to system tables gives the user visibility to data generated by other users. For example, STL_QUERY and STL_QUERYTEXT contain the full text of INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE statements.

:::

### Concept mapping 
| Source Concept | DataHub Concept                                           | Notes              |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `"redshift"`   | [Data Platform](../../metamodel/entities/dataPlatform.md) |                    |
| Database       | [Container](../../metamodel/entities/container.md)        | Subtype `Database` |
| Schema         | [Container](../../metamodel/entities/container.md)        | Subtype `Schema`   |
| Table          | [Dataset](../../metamodel/entities/dataset.md)            | Subtype `Table`    |
| View           | [Dataset](../../metamodel/entities/dataset.md)            | Subtype `View`     |


### Ingestion of multiple redshift databases, namespaces

- If multiple databases are present in the Redshift namespace (or provisioned cluster), 
you would need to set up a separate ingestion per database.

- Ingestion recipes of all databases in a particular redshift namespace should use same platform instance.

- If you've multiple redshift namespaces that you want to ingest within DataHub, it is highly recommended that 
you specify a platform_instance equivalent to namespace in recipe. It can be same as namespace id or other 
human readable name however it should be unique across all your redshift namespaces.


### Lineage

There are multiple lineage collector implementations as Redshift does not support table lineage out of the box.

#### stl_scan_based
The stl_scan based collector uses Redshift's [stl_insert](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_STL_INSERT.html) and [stl_scan](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_STL_SCAN.html) system tables to
discover lineage between tables.
Pros:
- Fast
- Reliable

Cons:
- Does not work with Spectrum/external tables because those scans do not show up in stl_scan table.
- If a table is depending on a view then the view won't be listed as dependency. Instead the table will be connected with the view's dependencies.

#### sql_based
The sql_based based collector uses Redshift's [stl_insert](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_STL_INSERT.html) to discover all the insert queries
and uses sql parsing to discover the dependencies.

Pros:
- Works with Spectrum tables
- Views are connected properly if a table depends on it

Cons:
- Slow.
- Less reliable as the query parser can fail on certain queries

#### mixed
Using both collector above and first applying the sql based and then the stl_scan based one.

Pros:
- Works with Spectrum tables
- Views are connected properly if a table depends on it
- A bit more reliable than the sql_based one only

Cons:
- Slow
- May be incorrect at times as the query parser can fail on certain queries

:::note

The redshift stl redshift tables which are used for getting data lineage retain at most seven days of log history, and sometimes closer to 2-5 days. This means you cannot extract lineage from queries issued outside that window.

:::

### Datashares Lineage
This is enabled by default, can be disabled via setting `include_share_lineage: False`

It is mandatory to run redshift ingestion of datashare producer namespace at least once so that lineage
shows up correctly after datashare consumer namespace is ingested.

### Profiling
Profiling runs sql queries on the redshift cluster to get statistics about the tables. To be able to do that, the user needs to have read access to the tables that should be profiled.

If you don't want to grant read access to the tables you can enable table level profiling which will get table statistics without reading the data.
```yaml
profiling:
    profile_table_level_only: true
```